CheckStyle-IDEA
---------------
(c) Copyright 2006-2009 CheckStyle-IDEA Contributors

http://code.google.com/p/checkstyle-idea/

A plug-in for JetBrains' IntelliJ IDEA 8 which provides real-time feedback
against a given CheckStyle (http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/)
profile by way of an inspection.

Released under a BSD-style licence - please see the LICENCE file for details.


Use
---

Once installed, a new inspection will be available in the group 'CheckStyle'.
The 'Errors' item in the preferences panel will allow you to turn this on
and to configure it.

Project exception are treated a little oddly. Because CheckStyle demands these
to be on the current classpath errors will appear if these have not as yet
been compiled. Further, because we cache the real-time checkers for performance
reasons, real-time scans may continue to show the errors after a compilation.
A static scan will force a reload of the Checker and should resolve this.


Configuration
-------------

Configuration is available under the Settings dialogue. This controls
configuration for both the inspection and static scanning.

- Configuration File tab -

The main configuration option is that of the CheckStyle file. If
this field is left empty, or the appropriate radio button is selected,
then the Sun checks, as supplied with CheckStyle, will be used.

The 'Scan Test Classes' checkbox will enable scanning of Java files
under test source roots. If disabled, these files will be ignored.

If a custom file is being used and properties are available for definition
then these will be displayed in the table below the file name.

- Third Party Checks tab -

This tab allows you to specify any third-party checks which your
configuration file makes use of. All selected directories/JAR files
will be added to CheckStyle's classpath.


Troubleshooting
---------------

If an error occurs during the check an exception will be thrown, which
IDEA will then catch and display in the standard exceptions dialogue. If
you're unsure as to why things are awry this would be your best bet - chances
are it's a missing property or classpath pre-requisite.


Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------

q) I see 'Got an exception - java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to get class
   information for <Exception Class>. (0:0)'
a) CheckStyle is unable to retrieve information on exceptions in your project
   until you have built it. Build your project in IDEA and then rescan.


Limitations
-----------

* The plugin will throw exceptions if used with class files targeted at a
  later version than that of the JDK used by IDEA. In particular, this will
  affect Mac users with the pre-release of JDK6. The solution is to target
  class files at the version of the IDEA JRE (i.e. 1.5 for Mac users). Thanks
  to J. G. Christopher.
* If you change the configuration options the real-time scan will not be updated
  until the file is either changed or reopened.
* We do not check if a property definition is required for a given file.
  Hence you can exit configuration without setting required properties. Given,
  however, that CheckStyle files can change without the plug-in being aware
  this is something we'll always have to live with to some degree.
* CheckStyle errors and warnings from the inspection are both shown at
  a single level, as IDEA will only allow one warning level for an inspection.
* Loading a file from a URL is current experimental and not guaranteed to do
  anything at all.


Future
------

The following are potential features which are likely to be investigated
for future releases.

* Scan selected files/folder in the project panel.
* Better error feedback.


Feedback
--------

Any comments or bug reports are most welcome - please visit
the project website at http://code.google.com/p/checkstyle-idea/


Acknowledgements
----------------

This plug-in owes its existence to both the style-overlords at work mandating
compliance with a CheckStyle configuration, and the Eclispe-CS
(http://eclipse-cs.sourceforge.net/) authors for making me jealous of the
real-time scan support available for Eclipse.

Thanks to those who have contributed work and effort directly to this project:

*  J. G. Christopher

And also thanks are due to the authors and contributors of:

* Eclispe-CS, for inspiration and solutions to coding problems.
* JetStyle, for filling the area of static scanning and also giving me
  inspirations on coding solutions.
* CheckStyle, for without them we'd have merely void and chaos.
* JetBrains, for an IDE which is worth every penny and them some.

And a big thank-you to everyone who's sent me feedback or bug reports - both
are much appreciated!


Licence
-------

This code is released under a BSD licence, as specified in the accompanying
LICENCE file.


Version History
---------------

2.4   - Fixed: Background scan thread does not wait on event thread.
2.3   - Fixed: Property values are not lost on configuration commit.
2.3   - Fixed: Exceptions in JAR files are not picked up.
2.3   - Fixed: Scan Modified Files is now disabled while other scans are active.
2.3   - Fixed: Background scan thread is now lower priority.
2.3   - Fixed: Module scan now works again.
2.2   - Fixed: Now works with IDEA8.0.
2.2   - New: Ability to scan on checkin. Thanks to J. G. Christopher.
2.2   - Experimental: Ability to load Checkstyle configuration from a URL. This is NOT robust at present.
2.1   - New: Ability to scan only modified files if project uses VCS. If the project
        does not use VCS then this action will have no effect. Thanks to J. G. Christopher
        for this patch.
2.1   - New: Ability to supress checks on test classes.
2.1   - New: Updated CheckStyle to 4.4.
2.1   - Fixed: Supression filters with relative paths now load correctly.
2.1   - Fixed: NewlineAtEndOfFile now works on Windows.
2.1   - Fixed: PackageHtml test will now work.

2.0.1 - WARNING: Due to persistence changes you will need to reconfigure the plug-in after upgrading.
2.0.1 - Fixed: Configuration dialogue now enables 'apply' when moving to default
        scheme from a configuration file.
2.0.1 - Changed: Remove deprecated API calls to [hopefully] ensure forward 7.0 compatibility.      
2.0.1 - Changed: Icons improved.
2.0.0 - This version offers no new features. However, 2.x versions will only work
        with IDEA 7M2 or above.
2.0.0 - Fixed: API changes for IDEA 7M2.

1.0.2 - Improved: Error handling
1.0.2 - Fixed: Exception when settings opened while no project loaded.
1.0.2 - Fixed: Exception if inspection cancelled during results processing.
1.0.2 - Fixed: Exception if configuration panel opened while puppycrawl.com
        could not be accessed.
1.0.1 - Fixed: Potenially IllegalState if project path cannot be retrieved
        within IDEA 7M1.
1.0   - New: Static scanning for current module implemented.
      - New: Ability to add third-party checks.
      - New: Ability to define external properties.
      - New: Now works with IDEA 7M1.
      - Fixed: Exceptions defined in project will no longer generate
        a CheckStyle error once they have been compiled.

0.5.2 - New: Settings are now stored in project, not workspace.

0.5.1 - Fixed: NullPointer when a null PSI element is encountered
        during scanning.
        
0.5   - Improved: Localisation support.
      - Improved: Config file locations under the project root are now
        stored as relative rather than the system-specific absolute path.
      - New: CheckStyle icons added.

0.4   - New: Added static scanning support.
      - New: Updated CheckStyle to 4.3.

0.3   - Improved: CheckStyle caching improved.
      - Improved: Temporary file deletion.

0.2   - Fix: File browser for configuration file filters out directories.

0.1   - Initial release.

